Use the Step 1 delivery I provided as the primary implementation plan, but make the following adjustments before implementing.

We are proceeding with Step 1 only.
Do not work on Steps 2–4.
Do not introduce prescribed vs performed architecture, historical rollups, readiness/recovery/fatigue logic, or broader UI redesign.

Implement Step 1 as a server-side movement-level muscle weighting engine with low-risk integration into the current codebase.

Use the existing Step 1 plan as the baseline, including:

new lib/movementProfiles.ts
additive integration into routes/audit.ts
preserving keyword fallback
preserving vaultIngestion.ts, sessionLoad.ts, aiService.ts, and mobile code
keeping the implementation incremental and V1-friendly

But make these changes to the plan before implementing:

MovementPattern taxonomy
Do not use the overly collapsed taxonomy from the draft.
Use this richer V1 taxonomy instead:
squat
hinge
lunge
horizontal_push
vertical_push
horizontal_pull
vertical_pull
carry
core_flexion
core_bracing
rotation
jump
cyclical
olympic_lift
gymnastics
Muscle roles
Do not derive role automatically from weight thresholds.
Each MuscleContribution must explicitly store:
muscle
weight
role
Role should be authored intentionally, not inferred.
MovementProfile shape
Include aliases directly on each MovementProfile:
key
name
aliases
pattern
modality
bias
muscles
Keep the module portable
movementProfiles.ts must remain a pure module:
no DB dependencies
no route dependencies
no server-specific logic
only types, constants, normalization helpers, lookup helpers
Conservative handling of cyclical movements
For row, run, bike erg, echo bike, assault bike, ski erg, jump rope, and double-under:
use distributed moderate muscle weights
avoid overstating a single prime mover
keep the profiles physiologically conservative
emphasize cyclical/endurance/conditioning bias rather than bodybuilding-style local muscle claims
Integration behavior
In routes/audit.ts:
use movement profile lookup first
map weighted muscles to audit muscles using toAuditMuscle()
threshold at weight >= 0.25 for inclusion
preserve the current keyword fallback exactly as Tier 2
do not remove old logic yet
Deliverables
Return:
exact files changed
exact types created
exact starter movement profiles created
exact integration points
any tests added
any assumptions or deferred items
Scope guardrails
Do not add:
prescribed vs performed models
historical muscle aggregation
recency-weighted load
readiness/recovery/fatigue
client-side body map logic
major refactors outside Step 1

If there is a good reason to slightly modify the draft Step 1 plan to better fit the current codebase, do so, but stay strictly within Step 1.

My recommendation
I would approve this direction with the edits above. The core recommendation is solid, and the main thing I would correct is the taxonomy and explicit-role design. Everything else is strong enough to move forward with. The uploaded Step 1 delivery is a good implementation blueprint.

If you want, next I can turn that into an even shorter “Codex action prompt” version that is optimized for execution instead of review.